Now that the acquisition process is complete and we've
selected the person we want to hire,
now we're excited to get them on board and as productive as fast as we can.
So here are some ideas.
I like to use a checklist,
so onboarding is the process by which we get someone on board,
in the door and as productive as fast as possible.
Onboarding,
okay I'm not going to talk about any HR onboarding
process since every company has one, like getting a badge or where to sit,
and things like that.
I want to focus on onboarding for the team itself.
Okay, first introductions.
Introduce your new hire to each person,
maybe in an all hands setting for quick departmental standup or one on ones.
Do not wait to do it later.
You want that person to feel immediately comfortable and welcome.
Now I want you to go into your office or a conference,
somewhere private,
and also then spend about an hour or two and go over the
following topics with the new hire.
Okay first, business alignment.
Go through your process of aligning your work to the business.
Be sure you emphasize that your team is using IT effectively to achieve
business objectives that result in improved business outcomes,
that produce and support business value.
Go through your process and how you map everything to the
business and show your matrix of activities,
you know, remember, we had the priority 1 activities,
priority 2 activities, and your backlog.
Next, customers.
You want to discuss your current customer base,
such as in this example, the sales portion of the business.
You want to ensure they understand exactly what the customers do
and how that contributes to the broader business.
Take the new person and introduce them to one or more customers if you can.
This will put a face on the customer and also your
customer will better relate to your team,
that is IT people are people too.
And lastly my mantra,
every single customer interaction is an opportunity to manage expectations,
let that sink in for a moment and ask the new hire what they think that means,
and have a good dialog around that.
Next, of course, is your structure.
Show the new person the structure as we illustrate in the last module and walk
through all the roles and their associated responsibilities,
all of them.
Give them a feel for the entire department, not just the role they'll be having.
Now spend a little more time on the role or roles that
they'll be playing and their responsibilities.
Answer any questions and be sure they have a good grasp of what is expected of
them and how they will be measured using performance reviews.
Skill development.
Explain how important skill development is to the entire department,
not just for the new hire but for their customers in the entire
company that benefit from the skills they'll learn.
Also emphasize that the technical skills are very important,
but also communication, leadership and interpersonal skills are key.
Team processes,
walk through each of the key processes that support the team and
how the new hire will fit into those processes.
This walk through of processes should be a Visio or PowerPoint or
something that is written and easily assessable,
such as in SharePoint, for example.
We will cover team processes in another module,
but I want to make sure for right where I am now that this is part
of the checklist of what you want to talk about.
Also explain that you want and expect input into improving
those processes as a normal part of their job.
Their first assignment.
Okay, now and only now is it time to get to work.
Prepare their first assignment based on their current skill level,
experience and maturity, you may make the assignments appropriately for that.
I like to make stretch assignments but keep them realistic.
Give them an expected estimate of the time you think it might
take to do those and let them begin with some analysis to
compare their estimate to yours.
For example, here are 2 assignments,
I think the first one is 8 hours and the next one is 24,
spend the next couple hours reviewing the assignments and what
estimates you think you need in order to accomplish.
This would be a good assignment as well.
Mentors.
Now that they have an assignment or two, where will they go for help?
It might be you or you can assign a mentor for each assignment.
This will give them a good feeling of support and they will know
it will be okay to bug or talk to someone.
I have seen many times people not doing any work since
they were afraid of bugging someone.
In my shop, ask questions anytime you want,
we are a team and we are here to help each other.
Okay so our new hire has met the team,
understand how it fits into the broader company,
and has their assignments.
Wonderful.
Congratulations. Alright now let's summarize this module.